Aarni Ylitalo
2584582


Week 1 Exercises


TASK 1
I personally use 3 different kind of passwords that are divided in tiers. First tier is the most important ones, for example workplace passwords, paypal account. Second tier for non-confidential,
but still important for me e.g. email. Third tier is for accounts that needs to be created for something that I use for a short period of time and can be tossed away.
These will be changed in case I notice that any of the used services are compromised. Also each of these passwords are only kept in my head,
in addition of the answers of the recovery questions. Two-factor authentication is also something that I use always when possible.
Not password related is that I always look very carefully emails(thanks to hoxhunt at work) for any phishing attempts and if there are any links I find a way to get to the location without clicking the link.

Yes, I have by my ex’s father whose laptop I loaned. After that I learned to never save any password anywhere. It’s not worth the few seconds of time I save when logging in. 

TASK 2
-My bank information, paypal account
-I’d say the biggest risk is if someone gets a worm, keylogger etc to my computer would be the biggest risk. Second would be PayPal getting hacked. But for both of these, I’d give a very small chance
-Weakest link is probably my phone. Passwords I change quickly if I get the information that the service lost its private data.
-Worst case scenario I would lose my savings.
-I could open one or more bank accounts on different banks, but at this point it would be a bit too expensive.

TASK 3
Password policy

Personnel in this company must use a password with minimum of 14 characters. It must contain upper case and lower-case letters. Numbers and special characters are allowed and recommended to use. 
Password should NOT contain company name, any known birthdays of you or your relative or anything that has something to do with you. 
Password must be only kept in your own memory and not written down on anything/anywhere. Two-factor authentication is also a must. 
There will be consequence if these rules are not followed. In case of not understanding or wanting to talk about this policy please contact your supervisor or IT support.

Feedback

This was good set of tasks as for week 1. Not 100% I understood them correctly because not answering in technical ways. For me these were something that I knew before the course but for someone who has not I assume they are good for not going too deep in the subjects. Something I suggest is giving some guidelines on how long you should write on each task. In Task 1 there is “Please keep your answer concise at minimun 150 words.” was a good tip on how long to write. Sorry for same answer as last spring. Time was very scarce due to work and personal things :( Next week I'm again full time student so more time on hand for this! :)
